https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-10752 (#6361)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: _pages/advisory_review.md

### RHBA (bug)

* Verify that "Security" is not mentioned in the _Synopsis_. Ensure that "Bug fixes" are mentioned. There can be others, but not security. 

* Topic section should not have the security statement mentioned.
  
* Ensure that the standard text for the product and list of _public_ Jira issues that were addressed are in the **Problem description** section.
  **Note**: Be sure to remove version numbers from the title.

* No CVEs
  
* In the **Solution** section be sure to refer users to the product documentation.

### RHEA (enhancement)

* Verify that "Security" is not mentioned in the _Synopsis_. Ensure that "Enhancements" are mentioned, and sometimes "Bug fixes". There can be others, but not security.

* Topic section should not have the security statement mentioned.

* Ensure that the standard text for the product and list of _public_ Jira issues that were addressed are in the **Problem description** section.
  **Note**: Be sure to remove version numbers from the title.

* No CVEs

* In the **Solution** section be sure to refer users to the product documentation.

## CVE fixes into Submariner/Volsync/Gatekeeper/GlobalHub

> There is an exception for CVEs to be listed in RHBA and RHEA. When the CVE fix becomes available in the base image, the `Freshmaker` tool runs a build for each impacted z-stream in the field to automatically update the base image for each impacted container and rebuild the image(s). Freshmaker uses the `BOTAS` tool to generate a new advisory for each impacted z-stream in the field to attach the rebuilt images. The release manager agrees to ship this advisory, unless a new z-stream is going to ship before the container grades drop. Then the team ships the new z-stream with the CVE fixes and drop the advisory created by Freshmaker/BOTAS.

Author: ```suggestion
There is an exception for CVEs to be listed in RHBA and RHEA. When the CVE fix becomes available in the base image, the `Freshmaker` tool runs a build for each impacted z-stream in the field to automatically update the base image for each impacted container and rebuild the image(s). Freshmaker uses the `BOTAS` tool to generate a new advisory for each impacted z-stream in the field to attach the rebuilt images. The release manager agrees to ship this advisory, unless a new z-stream is going to ship before the container grades drop. Then the team ships the new z-stream with the CVE fixes and drop the advisory created by Freshmaker/BOTAS.

Example: https://errata.devel.redhat.com/docs/show/130499
```

---
layout: page
title: Reviewing release advisories
permalink: advisory_review
horizontal: false
---

## Background

Advisories are released for General Availability (GA) release, z-streams (x.y.z), and for all operator releases (Submariner, VolSync, Gatekeeper, and Global Hub). Announcements about the build of advisories are announced by the CI/CD team. 

## Communications

Engineers create status threads for upcoming z-streams through the Slack channel, _acm-release_. The status threads are created for the following types of updates:

- Feature complete (FC): A build is ran to check for feature updates
- Release candidate (RC): A build is ran to check for bugs

> View the following example of Slack thread announcement: `MCE 2.2.12 RC1 Status Thread`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View the following example of a Slack thread announcement: `MCE 2.2.12 RC1 Status Thread`
```

**Reminders:**

- Check Slack channel for review during RC announcements
- View advisories from Firefox

## Types of advisories

- RHSA (security)
- RHBA (bug)
- RHEA (enhancement)

### RHSA (security)

> * Product Security must approve before you can approve. Patrick Hickey normally gets the security information ready before Owen Watkins and you sign off on it.

Reviewer: You would know more than I, but I am not used to seeing specific people called out by name. Should we say a job title instead? Or is it standard in our documentation to call out specific people, like we do here?

Author: You are right Jake, great suggestion. Let's just say "A developer from the Product Security team"

> * Topic should contain text similar to the following: “Red Hat Product Security has rated this update as having a security impact of Critical. A Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) base score, which gives a detailed severity rating, is available for each vulnerability from the CVE links in the References section.” “Critical” might be replaced with “important”, “medium”, or “low”. This should match the severity drop-down in the advisory.

Reviewer: Optional: what do you think about this rewrite to make it more user focused? 

```suggestion
* Before you approve the topic, it should contain text similar to the following: “Red Hat Product Security has rated this update as having a security impact of Critical. A Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) base score, which gives a detailed severity rating, is available for each vulnerability from the CVE links in the References section.” “Critical” might be replaced with “important”, “medium”, or “low”. This should match the severity drop-down in the advisory.
```

* Ensure that the standard text for the product and list of _public_ Jira issues that were addressed are in the **Problem description** section.

>    **Note**: Be sure to remove version numbers from the title.

Reviewer: Optional: it's more affirmative to tell the users directly what to do:

```suggestion
   **Note**: Remove version numbers from the title.
```

> * In the **Solution** section be sure to refer users to the product documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the **Solution** section,  refer users to the product documentation.
```

### RHBA (bug)

> * Verify that "Security" is not mentioned in the _Synopsis_. Ensure that "Bug fixes" are mentioned. There can be others, but not security. 

Reviewer: Optional: last sentence could be more user focused. And should we say "Security" like you did in the first sentence when you say "Security"? 

```suggestion
* Verify that "Security" is not mentioned in the _Synopsis_. Ensure that "Bug fixes" are mentioned. You can mention others, but you cannot mention "Security." 
```

* Topic section should not have the security statement mentioned.
  
* Ensure that the standard text for the product and list of _public_ Jira issues that were addressed are in the **Problem description** section.

>   **Note**: Be sure to remove version numbers from the title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Note**: Remove version numbers from the title.
```

* No CVEs
  

> * In the **Solution** section be sure to refer users to the product documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the **Solution** section, refer users to the product documentation.
```

### RHEA (enhancement)

> * Verify that "Security" is not mentioned in the _Synopsis_. Ensure that "Enhancements" are mentioned, and sometimes "Bug fixes". There can be others, but not security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that "Security" is not mentioned in the _Synopsis_. Ensure that "Enhancements" are mentioned, and sometimes "Bug fixes".  You can mention others, but you cannot mention "Security." 
```

* Topic section should not have the security statement mentioned.

* Ensure that the standard text for the product and list of _public_ Jira issues that were addressed are in the **Problem description** section.

>   **Note**: Be sure to remove version numbers from the title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Note**: Remove version numbers from the title.
```

* No CVEs

> * In the **Solution** section be sure to refer users to the product documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the **Solution** section, refer users to the product documentation.
```

## CVE fixes into Submariner/Volsync/Gatekeeper/GlobalHub

There is an exception for CVEs to be listed in RHBA and RHEA. When the CVE fix becomes available in the base image, the `Freshmaker` tool runs a build for each impacted z-stream in the field to automatically update the base image for each impacted container and rebuild the image(s). Freshmaker uses the `BOTAS` tool to generate a new advisory for each impacted z-stream in the field to attach the rebuilt images. The release manager agrees to ship this advisory, unless a new z-stream is going to ship before the container grades drop. Then the team ships the new z-stream with the CVE fixes and drop the advisory created by Freshmaker/BOTAS.

Example: https://errata.devel.redhat.com/docs/show/130499

## Review process

Before you review, verify that there is a doc issue that has a link to the advisory and a release date in the title of the issue. Complete the following steps during review:

> 1. Be attentive to the `acm-release` Slack channel for announcement threads.

Reviewer: Since these are action steps, consider using an action verb:
```suggestion
1. Monitor the `acm-release` Slack channel for announcement threads.
```

Reviewer: Or: 
```suggestion
1. Pay attention to the `acm-release` Slack channel for announcement threads.
```

2. Log on to VPN and log in to the errata tool with the `kinit` command. Run the following command:
   ```
   kinit <your_usename>@IPA.REDHAT.COM
   ```

3. Open the advisory in Google chrome browser or Firefox browser.

> 4. There are a list of issues from the _Summary_ tab. If you do not see any issues, reach out to the release manager to verify if other issues should be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. View the list of issues from the _Summary_ tab. If you do not see any issues, reach out to the release manager to verify if other issues should be added.
```

   **Note**: We document Erratas from the Customer portal documentation for only ACM and MCE. We do not document Erratas for other operators and add-ons. If you are documenting Errata, check for a summary of the fix from the issue that is linked. For all of the issues marked with the ‘errata’ label, the release manager should ask the dev team to provide a brief (one or two sentence) summary of the issue resolution that the customer can understand. The release manager creates a doc issue for the doc team to create a docs errata for the z-stream. This issue is opened for that z-stream with the `Documentation` component and the `errata` label. This is the only doc issue that should have the `errata` label. Other issues with the label should be dev issues.

> 5. Patrick either adds prod sec CVEs to the advisory or determines that there are no prod sec CVEs that apply to that release. If none, Owen or Borja have to change the advisory from RHSA to RHBA or RHEA.

Reviewer: Again with making each step an action for the user to take:
```suggestion
5.  Reach out to Patrick. Patrick either adds prod sec CVEs to the advisory or determines that there are no prod sec CVEs that apply to that release. If none, Owen or Borja have to change the advisory from RHSA to RHBA or RHEA.
```

Author: Will remove the name and say member from the product security team

4. Patrick either adds prod sec CVEs to the advisory or determines that there are no prod sec CVEs that apply to that release. If none, Owen or Borja have to change the advisory from RHSA to RHBA or RHEA.

5. After all of that is done for the advisory, make sure that the docs tab is correct according to the list at the beginning of this document.

6. The release manager creates a doc issue for the doc team to create a docs errata for the z-stream. This issue is opened for that z-stream with the ‘Documentation’ component and the ‘errata’ label. This is the only doc issue that should have the ‘errata’ label. Other issues with the label should be dev issues.

7. When it’s time to do the docs errata, the doc team runs a query for issues with both of the following specifications: 

- z-stream release that matches: example ‘ACM 2.9.1’ and ‘MCE 2.4.1’ 

> - The ‘errata’ label. **Note:** Remember not to filter on the ‘Documentation’ component at this point because the other issues should be dev issues and have their components listed. 

Author: ```suggestion
- The `errata` label. **Note:** Remember not to filter on the ‘Documentation’ component at this point because the other issues should be dev issues and have their components listed. 
```
